I hope everybody's ready
to jump back in this.
Hopefully this all made sense I
just got done explaining that I do
want to make sure that the problems that
we're doing are not complex in nature,
they're actually simple.
They're more fun to understand how to
parse strings in these various languages
than it is to solve some specific math
trick like the Chinese remainder theorem,
which did catch me for quite some
time on advent of code last year.
But so let's do this exact same problem,
but let's do it and go.
All right, so this is we're
gonna get kind of crazy here.
So I'm gonna go back to my projects folder
and I'm gonna make a directory called go.
Why not?
Right that seems pretty good we're going
to go learn.
Okay, so I'm gonna go go mod init,
you always have to do this,
this is just you have to give it
a name and the names are always URLs.
So there we go the primeagen,
we're just gonna call it aoc, there we go.
So you're gonna do the exact same thing
if you're going to Go go mod init,
here you go do this thing.
It's gonna create a new Go module and
then of course,
I'm gonna do get init because I like to
have proper fuzzy finding with ignoring,
say node modules and other things.
There we go and so now I'm gonna open
up that beautiful editor known as Vim.
So if you guys are using VS Code, you're
probably still clicking your way there,
but I'm just kidding, it's okay.
In Go, a standard project kind of setup
is that you have CMD command as where
you put your main files in, and
then you have PKG package where you
put kind of like your library files.
There's also internal and
other things but in general,
that's kind of the two main things you're
going to see in a lot of packages.
There's a few other packages
that have specific meanings, but
we're just going to rely on that.
So I'm gonna create a directory called
CMD, inside there, I'll create another
directory called p1 because any directory
can only have at max one main file, right?
And so we'll create p1 and in here you
can call it whatever you want to call it,
I just call it main.go
just out of just whatever.
So the first thing you put at the top of
all Go files of course is what package
does it belong to, when it belongs
to the main package you're telling
the compiler that this file will also
contain the entry point into your program.
And of course, the entry point is main,
pretty simple.
And so I'll give you a quick second so
me personally, I'm gonna
hop back to this thing and I'm gonna grab
this nice little function right here,
and I'm gonna hop back and
I'm gonna get this thing in here.
All right, so however you guys need to do
that just get the input into this program.
And I'm going to translate
this from TypeScript
into Go which is actually pretty easy.
The first thing you do is just take off
the tion on func so now it's just func and
then of course remove the semicolon or
remove the colon because you don't use
that as identifying a return value.
And there we go, we've now just written
successful go and pretty easily, right?
Go and TypeScript are actually rather
similar in most cases, shockingly similar.
Now it might even feel a little bit
shocking that it was that easy, but
it is that easy.
All right so, unfortunately Go does not
really favor the functional approach to
things and
when it comes to string processing,
I've always felt like that was
kind of a nice paradigm to use.
So we're gonna use the non fun
paradigm we're going like this,
parts equals string so there's this
library called strings which has
a bunch of Helper functions,
to be able to do things.
So if you have an LSP active,
when you use it, it should auto
import it up here if you don't have it
you need to make sure it imports strings.
I would definitely make sure you get
used to having those things auto
imported it's just way easier.
We're gonna call the method Split remember
capital letters identify things that
are exported so this string module
exports something called Split.
And I'm going to split my input getInput
via the new line all right actually
we can call this thing lines all
right look how beautiful that is.
So now Go, one nice thing about Go is
that it kind of has the liner built into
the LSP I'm not using lines therefore I
cannot even compile this project right if
you're not using all your variables
it does not compile, right?
It just wants to make sure you
don't make stupid mistakes.
Go is inherently written for the new
graduate that's even part of the design
goal that I forget the person's
name who created it.
That was one of his design goals was
to make this as easy of a language as
possible while maintaining
the most performance as possible.
So let's do a little for,
so whenever you do,
by the way the underscore denotes this
is a variable, but I will not use it.
So I'm gonna do a little quick for loop.
And of course the colon equals
means this is a new variable,
whereas the equal is assigning, just so
you know, I'm gonna do there you go so
this is a quick for
loop I'm gonna range over the lines.
And this right here is the index, right?
And this right here is the thing.
So there we go we have those two things.
And so now I need to do
something with those two things.
So much like the previous one, where
we did this like parse line let's build
the same function, but let's do it in Go.
So I'm gonna jump back and
we're gonna go like this func parseLine
we're gonna take a line string and
what we need to return out is going
to be something now we can't do this.
Now obviously, this would be great I would
like to do that we can do an array of two,
that is an option but
let's just use a struct, right?
Let's use some structs, let's kind of get
used to more kind of GUIism type thing.
So we're gonna go like this, type, we'll
call it Point I'm not sure if it's really
a point it's kind of more of
technically like a vector, but
we're just gonna call it whatever right
a tuple, it doesn't really matter.
Type Point struct and we're gonna have an
x that is an int and a y that is an int.
Now notice you don't put any commas
you don't put in any semi colons so
what you do and of course,
let's return that point from this.
All right, so now let's start parsing
the line, I'm gonna just copy this line,
bring it up here, and
I'm gonna call it parts.
And I'm gonna split of course
the line on whitespace,
just like we did in our previous
program on our other version.
We're just simply splitting now each line
by the whitespace so now we're gonna have
ford up down on one side, and we're
gonna have a number on the other side.
So let's first, let's get the amount out,
let's get that number out, right?
So I'm gonna go like this amount equals
again you can use strcon which is another
one of these libraries out there
that is just provided to you,
this will convert strings
into some other set of types.
So I'm gonna press yes on this thing,
which obviously means
that I'm importing it.
If you don't have it imported it breaks,
make sure you have that thing auto
imported and I'm gonna like this Ato,
now this is a kind of a call
back to an old function.
I think it stands for ASCII to integer or
ArrayBuffer to integer,
I cannot remember exactly
what it stands for but
it's gonna effectively take in
a string and convert it into a number.
So I'm gonna go like this
parts 1 like this but
you're gonna see something right right
away what is the error it says you
cannot initialize one variable with
two values, what does that mean?
Well if we jump to the definition
it returns an int and an error.
All right we're already into the error
land with girl so let's do this so
I'm gonna add the word err,
what should we do if we hit an err?
Well, for the sake of this program,
we should never hit an err ever.
So I'm just gonna just ruin the program
right here this thing doesn't work out.
So I'm gonna do my standard
little if err does not equal nil,
I'm gonna import something called log.
When you do log you can add a fatal and
I'm just going to be like this should
never ever happen I'm going to just
destroy this program immediately
right this should just never happen and
that's just a fact of life.
All right awesome so
now we have this beautiful amount int,
we have our parts, which still has
part zero which has the direction.
So now we just do the old,
amount equals oops,
double equals doesn't have
a strong of equal signs,
forward, my goodness do the exact
same thing return point.
Go actually, will auto format when
I hit a nil, it'll auto format it
to look a little differently but
x will be like do I use amount?
Parts 0 that's silly of me,
amount y of course is 0 correct,
does that makes sense, Go also make you
put what's called commas at the end,
it's considered an actual parsing error.
It's one of the things that makes Go so
fast that compiling is that it
enforces a super strict syntax.
And so that just means that
the language is way less complex.
If you always,
every there's no checking to see,
is there an extra comma at the end?
No, there's always a comma at the end
we always expect at the end right?
So that's part of the reason what makes Go
really fun is that it just parses super
fast so I'm gonna copy that whole
thing do a little else if and
change this to up right if it's
up let's move this thing down,
call this thing x,
call that thing y and put a minus sign.
Good so now we're dealing
the upper portion and of course,
we can copy it again, align it, and
this would be the downforce, right?
Does that all make sense?
I'll give you guys a moment to look
at this I think the problem is fairly
straightforward it's just
more learning the syntax.
Yeah we got a question.
>> Is underscore reserved
variable name for
which the Go compiler skips checking
if it is declared not used?
>> Yes, it identifies to the compiler
that you will not be using this.
And so that's kind of how,
it's just like Rust,
Rust also gives you the same semantics.
Rust just says start anything
with an underscore and
we know it will not be a warning for you.
We already know that you're
planning on using it, it's just or
you're not planning on using it.
It doesn't matter, we just won't
consider it Go is just a little bit more
strict about these things, in Rust you
get a warning during build time in Go
you get a hard error you may not proceed.
And so of course the underscore
is built for that.
All right so long as we've done
everything mostly correct I should be
able to do the following I'll go
like this position equals a point.
Now this is called a list initializer
this can be very painful and
very good at the exact same time let me
give you a fun error that took me about 30
minutes to figure out
what was going wrong.
All right if we go up to our
definition and I go like that and
I have I think I may put this in my
presentation I may not so we'll find out I
have x equals 0 have I put that myself
semicolon there you don't need it y.
If I were to do x, y in other languages,
you might go the x gets assigned to the x,
the y gets assigned to the y,
wrong it's a list initializer.
It's gonna go in order of
the properties that are in the struct,
this is just like a hard gotcha
be very careful about this.
So in this example,
if x was 1 and y was 0,
my actual definition would have y as 1 and
x is 0 so careful, careful, careful.
Just really, I don't know why but
I don't understand that one but
it is what it is, so
let's just deal with it.
So there we go we have our position
we're gonna create our amount
we're gonna go up here and
what do we call this thing parseLine?
ParseLine and let's just parse in
our line this thing is going to
return back out a point we can
see right there it's a point and
of course pos x plus equals amount
x copy it replace x with y,
boom, you got it, we're done.
Now long as we've done
everything correctly,
we should be able to do
a little format print.
We can use log printing we already have
log in here now we're like mixing log
versus format.
Don't worry about it at this point in your
Go development life you don't you know,
you don't need to know
the finer points of logging.
Though I'm positive someone out there
will be like, don't worry about it.
All right point and so we can use this fun
little operator called the +v this will
kind of give us a more
debugged print of our values.
So if I've done this correctly, we
should see ourselves with a 15 and a 10.
So I'm going to go go run, and I gotta
go to the location, command p1 main.go.
And there we go 15, 10 just like our
previous one obviously I didn't multiply
them together to get 150 but
as you can see, not too bad, right?
That was a shockingly some simple language
here, I'm gonna zoom it out a little bit.
Kind of verbose a little bit long,
but at the exact same time,
like nothing in here happened, that I
think anyone was shocked about if you've
never even seen Go until this moment
it's a pretty straightforward language.
And that's one thing I've just grown to
really appreciate about the language is
that you get speed without the complexity